Amazon Polly is a cloud service that converts text into lifelike speech. You can use Amazon Polly to develop applications that increase engagement and accessibility. Amazon Polly supports multiple languages and includes a variety of lifelike voices, so you can build speech-enabled applications that work in multiple locations and use the ideal voice for your customers. With Amazon Polly, you only pay for the text you synthesize. You can also cache and replay Amazon Polly’s generated speech at no additional cost.

Additionally, Amazon Polly includes a number of Neural Text-to-Speech (NTTS) voices, delivering ground-breaking improvements in speech quality through a new machine learning approach, thereby offering to customers the most natural and human-like text-to-speech voices possible. Neural TTS technology also supports a Newscaster speaking style that is tailored to news narration use cases.

Common use cases for Amazon Polly include, but are not limited to, mobile applications such as newsreaders, games, eLearning platforms, accessibility applications for visually impaired people, and the rapidly growing segment of Internet of Things (IoT).

Amazon Polly is certified for use with regulated workloads for HIPAA (the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996), and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).

Some of the benefits of using Amazon Polly include:

High quality – Amazon Polly offers both new neural TTS and best-in-class standard TTS technology to synthesize the superior natural speech with high pronunciation accuracy (including abbreviations, acronym expansions, date/time interpretations, and homograph disambiguation).

Low latency – Amazon Polly ensures fast responses, which make it a viable option for low-latency use cases such as dialog systems.

Support for a large portfolio of languages and voices – Amazon Polly supports dozens of voices languages, offering male and female voice options for most languages. Neural TTS currently supports three British English voices and eight US English voices. This number will continue to increase as we bring more neural voices online. US English voices Matthew and Joanna can also use the Neural Newscaster speaking style, similar to what you might hear from a professional news anchor.

Cost-effective – Amazon Polly's pay-per-use model means there are no setup costs. You can start small and scale up as your application grows.

Cloud-based solution – On-device TTS solutions require significant computing resources, notably CPU power, RAM, and disk space. These can result in higher development costs and higher power consumption on devices such as tablets, smart phones, and so on. In contrast, TTS conversion done in the AWS Cloud dramatically reduces local resource requirements. This enables support of all the available languages and voices at the best possible quality. Moreover, speech improvements are instantly available to all end-users and do not require additional updates for devices.